# Community-Driven Rental Complaint Portal

## Overview
This project is a full-stack web application built using the MERN (MongoDB, Express, React, Node.js) stack.  
It allows tenants to submit complaints related to their rental properties, and landlords can view and update the status of those complaints.  
The goal of this project is to create a simple, role-based system that helps streamline communication between tenants and landlords.

---

## Live Links
- Frontend (Netlify): sparkling-arithmetic-a8c6b4.netlify.app
- Backend (Render): https://rental-portal-backend-98q1.onrender.com  

---

## Tech Stack
**Frontend:** React, Tailwind CSS  
**Backend:** Node.js, Express.js  
**Database:** MongoDB Atlas  
**Authentication:** JWT (JSON Web Token)  
**Deployment:** Render (Backend), Netlify (Frontend)

---

## Features
- Tenants can log in and submit complaints.
- Landlords can log in to view all complaints.
- Landlords can update the complaint status (e.g., Pending, Resolved).
- Secure authentication using JWT.
- Deployed using free cloud platforms for both backend and frontend.
- MongoDB Atlas used for storing user and complaint data.
- Tenant signup with approval system by landlord.
- Landlords can accept/reject tenants

---

## Project Setup (Local)
If you want to run this project locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Pavana-Krishna-360/rental-portal.git
cd rental-portal

2. Install dependencies
For backend:

bash
Copy code
cd server
npm install


For frontend:
bash
Copy code
cd ../client
npm install
3. Add environment variables

Create a .env file in the server folder and add:
ini
Copy code
MONGO_URI=your mongodb connection string
JWT_SECRET= your jwt secret
PORT=5000

4. Run the project
In one terminal:
bash
Copy code
cd server
npm start

In another terminal:
bash
Copy code
cd client
npm start

Deployment:
Backend hosted on Render using Node.js environment.
Frontend hosted on Netlify using the build folder generated by npm run build.
Both services are connected to the same MongoDB Atlas cluster.

Future Improvements
Add email notifications when a complaint status is updated.
Add dashboard statistics for complaint tracking.
Improve the UI for better tenant-landlord interaction.

Author
Name: Pavana Krishna
Role: Student Developer
Objective: To learn full-stack development through practical, deployed projects.
